When the Temple at Jerusalem was completed by K.S., supported by H.K. of T. and aided by H.A, its costliness and splendour became objects of admiration to the surrounding nations and its fame spread to the remotest parts of the then-known world. There was nothing however in connection with this magnificent structure more remarkable, or that more particularly struck the attention, than the two great Ps. which stood at the porchway entrance. That on the L. was called <BLANK>, which denotes I.S., that on the R. <BLANK>, which denotes T.E., and when conjoined 'S', for God said "I.S. will I.E. this mine house to stand firm for ever."

The height of these Ps. was seventeen and a half cubits each, their circumference twelve, their diameter four; they were formed hollow, the better to serve as archives to Freemasonry, for therein were deposited the constitutional rolls. Being formed hollow, their outer rim or shell was four inches or a hand's breadth in thickness. They were made of molten brass and were cast in the clay ground on the banks of the Jordan, betweed Succot and Zeredathah, where K.S. ordered those and all his holy vessels to be cast; the superintendent of the casting was H.A. These Ps. were adorned with two chapiters, each five cubits high; the chapiters were enriched with net-work, lily-work, and pomegranates; net-work, from the connection of its meshes, denotes unity; lily-work, from its whiteness, peace; and pomegranates, from the exuberance of their seed, plenty. There were two rows of pomegranates on each chapiter, one hundred in a row. They were further adorned with two spherical balls on which were delineated maps of the celestial and terrestrial globes, pointing out 'Masonry universal', and they were considered finished when the net-work or canopy was thrown over them. They were set up as a memorial to the Children of Israel of that miraculous pillar of fire and cloud which had two wonderful effects, the fire giving light to the Israelites and facilitating their escape from their Egyptian bondage, while the cloud proved darkness to Pharaoh and his followers in their attempt to overtake them.

K.S. ordered the pillars to be placed at the entrance of the Temple as the most proper and conspicuous situation, that the Children of Israel might have the happy deliverance of their forefathers before their eyes in going to and returning from Divine worship.

At the building of K.S.T. an immense number of artificers were employed, consisting of E.As. and F.Cs. The EAs. received a weekly allowance of corn, wine and oil; the F.Cs. were paid their wages in specie and went into the middle chamber of the Temple to receive them; they got there by the porchway entrance. After our ancient Brethren had entered the porch they arrived at the foot of the winding staircase which led to the middle chamber. Their ascent was opposed by the J.W. who demanded of them the P.G. and P.W. leading from the First to the Second Degree.

The P.G. you are all in possession of, and the P.W. you will recollect is <BLANK>, which denotes 'P' and is here depicted by an e. of c. near a f. of w.

The word <BLANK> takes its rise from the time that an army of Ephraimites crossed the river Jordan in a hostile manner against Jephthah, the renowned Gileaditish general.

The reason they assigned for this unfriendly visit was that they had not been called out to partake of the honours of the Ammonitish war, but their true aim was to share the rich spoils with which, in consequence of that war, Jephthah and his army were then laden. The Ephraimites, who had long been considered a clamorous and turbulent people, now broke out into open violence and after many severe taunts to the Gileadites in general, threatened to destroy their victorious commander and his house with fire. Jephthah, on his part, tried all lenient means to appease them, but, finding these ineffectual, he had recourse to rigorous ones. He therefore drew out his army, gave the Ephraimites battle, defeated them and put them to flight. To render his victory decisive and to secure himself from like molestation in the future, he sent detachments of his army to secure the passages of the Jordan over which he knew the insurgents must of necessity attempt to go in order to regain their own country. He gave strict orders to his guards that if a fugitive should pass that way owning himself an Ephraimite he should immediately be slain, but if he prevaricated or said 'nay', a test was to be applied which was to pronounce the word <BLANK> They, from a defect in aspiration peculiar to their dialect, could not pronounce it properly but called it <BLANK> . This slight deviation discovered their country and cost them their lives and Scripture informs us that there fell on that day, on the field of battle and on the banks of the Jordan, forty and two thousand Ephraimites. And as <BLANK> was then used as a test word to distinguish friend from foe, K.S. afterwards ordered that it be adopted as a P.W. to prevent any unqualified person ascending the winding staircase which led to the middle chamber of the Temple.

Our ancient Brethren having given these convincing proofs to the J.W., he said "Pass <BLANK>". They then passed up the winding staircase, consisting of three, five, seven, or more steps; three to rule a Lodge, five to hold a Lodge, and seven or more to make it perfect. The three who rule a Lodge are the W.M. and the two Ws.; the five that hold a Lodge are the W.M., the two Ws. and two F.Cs.; the seven that make it perfect are two E.As. added to the former five. Three rule a Lodge because at the building of K.S.T. there were but three Grand Masters who bore sway, namely, S.K. of I., H.K. of T., and H.A.; five hold a Lodge in allusion to the five noble orders of Architecture, which are the Tuscan, Doric, lonic, Corinthian, and Composite, seven or more make a perfect Lodge because K.S. was seven years and upwards in building, completing, and dedicating the Temple at Jerusalem to God's service; they have likewise a further allusion to the seven liberal arts and sciences, namely, Grammar, Rhetoric, Logic, Arithmetic, Geometry, Music, and Astronomy.

When our ancient Brethren had gained the summit of the winding staircase they arrived at the door of the middle chamber, which they found open, but properly T. against all below the Degree of a F.C. by the S.W., who demanded of them the Sn., T., and W. of that Degree. After they had given him these convincing proofs he said "Pass <BLANK>".

They then passed into the middle chamber to receive their wages, which they did without scruple or diffidence. Without scruple, knowing that they were justly entitled to them, and without diffidence, from the great reliance they placed on the integrity of their employers in those days.

When they were in the middle chamber their attention was particularly arrested by certain Hebrew characters, which are here depicted by the letter G., alluding to God, T.G.G.O.T.U., to whom we must all submit and ought most humbly to adore.