The usages and customs among Freemasons have ever borne a near affinity to those of the Ancient Egyptians. Their philosophers, unwilling to expose their mysteries to vulgar eyes, concealed their particular tenets and principles of policy and philosophy under hieroglyphical figures and expressed their notions of government by signs and symbols which were communicated to their Priests or Magi alone, who were bound by oath never to reveal them. Pythagoras seems to have established his system on a similar plan and many others of a more recent date have copied his example.

Masonry, however, is not only the most ancient, but the most honourable Institution that ever existed; every character or emblem here depicted serves to inculcate the principles of piety and virtue. Let me first direct your attention to the form of the Lodge which is an oblong or parallelopipedon; in length from E to W, in breadth between N and S, in depth from the surface of the earth to the centre, and even as high as the Heavens. A Freemason's Lodge is described as being of such vast dimensions to shew the universality of the science; likewise, that a Freemason's charity should know no bounds save those of prudence.

Our Lodges stand on holy ground because the first Lodge was consecrated on account of three grand offerings thereon made, which met with Divine approbation. Our Lodges are situated due E and W because all places of Divine worship, as well as Freemasons' regular, well formed, duly constituted Lodges are, or ought to be, so situated; for which we assign three Masonic reasons. First, the Sun, the Glory of the Lord, rises in the E and sets in the W; secondly, learning originated in the E and thence spread its benign influence to the W; there is likewise a third, last and grand reason, which however, is too long to be given here.

Our Lodges are supported by three great pillars, which are called Wisdom, Strength, and Beauty; Wisdom to contrive, Strength to support, and Beauty to adorn; Wisdom to conduct us in all our undertakings, Strength to support us under all our difficulties, and Beauty to adorn the inward man. These three great pillars are emblematical of those three Divine attributes and further represent S.K. of I., H.K. of T., and H.A.; S.K. of I. for his wisdom in building, completing, and dedicating the Temple at Jerusalem to God's service; H.K. of T. for his strength in supporting him with men and materials, and H.A. his curious and masterly workmanship in beautifying and adorning the same. But as we have no noble orders of Architecture known by the names of Wisdom, Strength and Beauty, we refer them to the three most celebrated which are the lonic, Doric, and Corinthian.

The covering of a Freemason's Lodge is a celestial canopy of diverse colours, even the Heavens. The way by which we, as Freemasons, hope to arrive there is by the assistance of a ladder, in Scripture called Jacob's ladder. It has many staves or rounds which point out as many moral virtues. The three principal ones are Faith, Hope, and Charity; Faith in T.G.A.O.T.U., Hope in Salvation, and to be in Charity with all men. This ladder, which reaches to the Heavens, rests on the V. of the S.L., because by the doctrines contained in that Holy Book we are taught to believe in the wise dispensation of Divine Providence, which belief, strengthens our Faith and enables us to ascend the first step.

This Faith naturally creates in us a Hope of becoming partakers of the blessed promises therein recorded, which Hope enables us to ascend the second Step. But the third and last, being Charity, comprehends the whole, and the Freemason who is in possession of this virtue in its most ample sense, may justly be deemed to have attained the summit of his profession, figuratively speaking, an ethereal mansion, veiled from mortal eyes by the starry firmament, emblematically depicted in our Lodges by seven stars which have an allusion to as many regularly made Freemasons, without which number no Lodge is perfect, nor can any candidate be legally Initiated into the Order.

The interior of a Freemasons' Lodge is composed of Ornaments, Furniture, and Jewels. The Ornaments are the Mosaic Pavement, the Blazing Star, and the Indented or Tesselated Border; the Mosaic Pavement is the beautiful flooring of the Lodge, the Blazing Star, the Glory in the centre, and the Indented or Tesselated Border, the skirtwork round the same.The Furniture consists of the V. of the S.L., the Cs. and S.; the Sacred Writings are to rule and govern our faith and on them we obligate our candidates for Freemasonry; so are the Cs. and S., when united, to regulate our lives and actions. 

The Sacred Writings are derived from God to man in general, the Cs. belong to the Grand Master in particular;, and the S. to the whole Craft. Of the Jewels, three are movable and three immovable. The movable Jewels are the S., the L., and the P.R.; the S. is used by operative Masons to try and to adjust rectangular corners of buildings and to assist in bringing rude matter into due form; the L., to lay levels and prove horizontals; and the P.R., to try and to adjust uprights while fixing them on their proper bases; they have likewise a moral tendency. They are called movable Jewels because they are worn by the Master and his Wardens and are transferable to their successors on nights of Installation. The Master is distinguished by the S., the S.W. by the L., and the J.W. by the P.R.

The immovable Jewels are the Tracing Board, the Rough and Perfect Ashlars. The Tracing Board is for the Master to lay lines and draw designs on, the Rough Ashlar for E.A. to carve, mark, and indent on, and the Perfect Ashlar for the more experienced workman to try and to adjust his Jewels on. They are called immovable Jewels because they lie open and immovable in the Lodge for the Brethren to moralise on. In all regular, well formed, and duly constituted Lodges there is a point within a circle round which the Brethren cannot err.

This circle is bounded between N and S by two grand parallel lines, the one representing Moses, the other K.S.; on the upper part of this circle rests the V. of the S.L. unfolded, supporting Jacob's ladder, and were we as conversant with the doctrines contained in that Holy Book and adherent thereto as those two grand parallels were, it would bring us to Him who will not deceive us, neither will He suffer deception. In passing round this circle we must of necessity touch on both those parallel lines, likewise the V. of the S.L., and while a freemason keeps himself thus circumscribed it is impossible for him to err.

The word Lewis denotes strength and is here depicted by certain pieces of metal, which, when dovetailed into a stone, form a cramp and enables the operative Mason to raise great weights to certain heights with little encumbrance, while fixing them on their proper bases. Lewis likewise denotes the son of a Freemason, whose duty to his parents is to bear the heat and burden of the day, from which they, by reason of their age, should be exempt, and to assist them in time of need and thereby render the close of their days happy and comfortable; his privilege for so doing is that of being made a Freemason before any other person, however dignified.

Pendant to the corners of the Lodge are four tassels, meant to remind us of the four cardinal virtues, namely, Temperance, Fortitude, Prudence, and Justice, the whole of which, tradition informs us, were constantly practised by a majority of our ancient Brethren. In conclusion, let me remind you that the distinguishing characteristics of a good Freemason are Virtue, Honour, and Mercy, and should they be banished from all other societies, may they ever be found in a Freemason's breast.